Title: "Tranquility base here, the Robin has landed..."
Date: 2008-04-03 17:25
Author: Robin
Tags: Life, Work
Category: Blog
Slug: tranquility-base-here-the-robin-has-landed
nocomments: True

Since a number of folks have expressed interest and concern I thought I
would give a quick update on my working situation. This week I've
started a full-time consulting job with a small software group at the
[University of Nebraska Medical Center](http://unmc.edu). If you
attended [PyCon](http://pycon.org/) a couple years ago then you may have
seen their
[talk](http://us.pycon.org/zope/talks/2006/sun/track1/37/talkDetails)
about IntúaCare and IntúaDesign. That is the project that I'll be
working with. I'll be working *with* wxPython a lot, and probably also
working *on* wxWidgets and wxPython to some extent as well, although not
as much as I did with OSAF.

I'm excited to be working on this project. Not just because of wxPython,
but also because I have previous experience with the subject matter. My
first major job out of college was working on software products that had
a lot of the same goals as the IntúaSolutions products: essentially to
be a highly dynamic and flexible solution for collecting and reporting
medical patient care data in hospitals. The key here is the "highly
dynamic and flexible" part, the intent is to have a set of
domain-specific tools where unskilled (a.k.a non-programmers) but
knowledgeable people can easily tailor the application to the needs of
each hospital, or even each department within the hospital. My former
experience with this was back in the dark days of DOS so the products
had only a textual user interface, but I think we managed to accomplish
a lot with it and it was a very successful product line, and at least as
of a few years ago it was still going strong, although they've
modernized a bunch of things since I worked there.

Obviously a few things have changed in the computer world since then. I
discovered Python a year or so after I left that job and I've always
wondered what it would have been like if we had used Python as the
internal macro/calculation/filtering/query language instead of our
home-grown RDL (for anyone outside of the marketing group and the
customers that acronym stands for Robin Dunn's Language, otherwise it is
Rule Definition Language.) Since that time we've also gone through the
rise of the graphical user interface, the explosion of the World Wide
Web, and my current notebook computer has 7.5 times the number of pixels
on screen and 8 times more RAM than the hard drive space in the brand
new top of the line desktop computer I had when we started that project!
It should be fun to be able to apply modern technology and my new skills
to similar features and issues that I dealt with 14-18 years ago.

I've linked to this video as a way to let you know how big of an effort
this job search seemed to be at times, and also how good it felt when it
was finally complete.

:-)

<p>
<center>
<object height="355" width="425">
<param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/xLu0Ak9Blog&amp;hl=en"></param><param name="wmode" value="transparent"></param>

<embed src="http://www.youtube.com/v/xLu0Ak9Blog&amp;hl=en" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" wmode="transparent" height="355" width="425">
</embed>
</object>
</center>
</p>

